# Assignment 3: Interactive visualization
### Here is a link to my shiny app: https://mlyu.shinyapps.io/HW03InteractiveViz_MuxuanLyu/

##### In this homework, I used the dataset for my thesis. In this study, we investigated people’s aesthetic preference using a constructed highway environment with constantly changing surroundings. In order to examine how landscape characteristics influence people’s preferences, we developed six custom GIS-based 4D real-time highway driving simulations where we controlled the type and location of environmental features (i.e., trees, lake, billboard, house and traffic sign), and topography (flat, rolling hills and mountainous forest). We also calculated the low-level visual features of the videos by every half second. Participants (N = 37) watched all six videos (Flat 1 and 2, Hill 1 and 2, and Mount 1 and 2) in pseudo-random order, while continuously indicating preference using a slide bar, with half second precision. By adjusting the slider up or down, participants indicated their likeness towards the landscape more or less correspondingly. The ratings were collected on a scale from 0-10 with a sensitivity of two decimal places. We hypothesize that both low-level visual features and semantic features are able to predict preference. 
##### In this data visualization, I combined shiny app and plotly to make interactive graphs. In the top two panels, I plotted the average ratings with the error ribbon to show the range of participants’ ratings. In order to be able to couple the changing trends in ratings with events of different features, I added a graph that show the presence of semantic features right below the average ratings plot. However, all the semantic features were binary variables except for trees, it was hard to plot all the variables in the same graph. Given that the measurement of trees and average ratings were roughly on the same scale, I decided to put them together within one graph. I colored trees in green and dashed line in order to be identifiable from average ratings. In general, the data were visualized by each video, and the height of the semantic features plot is adjustable in order to meet the needs for visualization on different sizes of the computer screens.
##### I also created plotly events with event_data(). In this way, the reader can get access to data for multiple data points at once using either select or zoom function. 
##### In order to have a more precise results of how low-level visual features and semantic features influence the preference ratings, I ran a regression analysis in the bottom panel. The analysis was adapted for each video because different features were present in different videos. Besides, the regression analysis can be run based for different time intervals. The readers could observe that different features accounted for different amounts of variance depending on the presences of other features.
##### For the layout, I used to have main panel and sidebar panels, but the results of regression analysis did not have enough space to show the result of each variable within one row. Thus, I moved the two plots to the bottom and followed by the plotly events, select menu, and the regression analysis. 
